# **Current-Emerging-Trends-in-CS**

In module five we had the opportunity to work on an AI program that would navigate a pirate agent through a maze. In module seven, after continued further education on the material, we were able to go back and improve upon that program. 

**Briefly explain the work that you did on this project: What code were you given? What code did you create yourself?**

Most of the code for this program was provided for us. We received a completed environment file (TreasureMaze.py) and episode file (GameExperience.py). Our job was to implement a deep q-learning algorithm to find the best possible path. The code was already setup to use exploration and exploitation to help the learning process and pseudocode was provided for our portion to help guide us. Ultimately, we wrote code that would allow the agent to navigate the maze multiple times and commit those trials to memory. It would learn from those experiences and become better at navigating the maze. As mentioned briefly above, this was done using a combination of exploration (randomly exploring the map) and exploitation (using what it has learned from experience to navigate) at a ratio of 9 attempts using exploitation for every 1 attempt using exploration. This allowed the agent to learn from and improve upon it's experience while also allowing discovery of potentially better solutions.

**What do computer scientists do and why does it matter?**

Computer scientists use technology to analyze or manipulate data and create programs to solve real world problems. With technology ever improving and being tied to everything today, computer scientists are extremely important. Technology and smart systems control everything from the climate in our homes to flying space shuttles to space. More and more real world problems are being solved with technology every day which means more and more necessity for computer scientists to develop programs and analyze data. With the increase in technology, old programs are even being replaced with newer programs. 

**How do I approach a problem as a computer scientist?**

Approaching a problem as a computer scientist should always start with research. You cannot solve a problem effectively if you do not understand it fully. This is the most important step in the process and involves interviewing potential users to gather requirements and understand the what problem is trying to be solved as well as what a perfect solution may look like. We may also analyze workflows in this stage. Next would be a planning phase where possible solutions would be pitched and things like wireframes or rough drafts of systems would be put together. A lan for a schedule is also usually made to chart a clear path to the goal. Next is development and implementation. This is where most time is spent building the solution that was agreed upon in the planning phase. We would follow that with robust testing including user acceptance testing. After implementation is the maintenance phase which would last the lifetime of the program. Here is where bugs would be addressed and updates for things like new features would be implemented.

**What are my ethical responsibilities to the end user and the organization?**

Ethics are important to consider as a computer scientist. We have an obligation to do our best to eliminate things like bias in the data. We learned in this course that this is not always easy to do. Bias can be, and often is, hidden. Taking AI as an example, though something may not be hard coded to have a bias, if the data from which it learns is bias, it will most likely develop the same bias. Along with bias are some other key rules like responsible use and protection of data, not harming others, gaining consent to use data, and thinking about social dilemmas that a program may cause. With programs being used to control everything, the threat of crossing an ethical line is greater now than it ever has been. It is up to us to keep an eye out for these lines and walk them carefully.
